Bear. Bear. Bear.
What ya doin', buddy?
Oh, you don't wanna play.
Bears these days,
just don't wanna play anymore.
Goin' up to do a surprise
check-up on Kayla's crew
at Mark Siethen's place.
Got a lot on my plate.
Got more to do
than I have time.
In remote Southeast Alaska,
Dustin Hurt has spent every
last cent of his savings
on his new claim at
Nugget Creek
and is counting on Kayla's
crew at Porcupine Creek
to help bankroll
the entire operation.
How's it goin'?
Pretty good. We're starting
to get all the little quirks
worked out.
- That is some dirty water
you got there.
- It's awful.
So, thought y'all
were gonna kick
the tailings over the road.
I mean, the water's gonna
be that color regardless.
Well, that's--
Look at the difference.
Paul Richardson is
three hours into his dive
and dredging blind.
Mind if I talk to him
for a sec?
Yeah.
Hey, Paul. How ya doin', man?
Not good.
- So what's the diggin' like?
- Can't see [bleep].
Yeah, I'm about ready
to call my dive.
Here's one piece
right there.
It's not-- It's just a flake.
Like 10 cents worth of gold,
if that.
That's a lot of
work for nothin'.
That really [bleep] sucks.
I might be
changing some things up here.
Might piss a lot of
people off. It's okay.
I'm okay with
pissing people off.
I don't like the way
things are being done.
I got some different ideas.
It's just a [bleep] show.
Kayla and Justin,
I'ma need you guys to
come up with me to camp
and scout out your new place.
We need to know
where y'all are diggin'.
Scott and Paul,
you're gonna stay here
and dredge.
It's a lot of damn work, man.
I think we need somebody
with experience.
You're not gonna like what
he has to say about anything,
but I would like Fred
to be here.
What the hell y'all
got goin' here?
Three, two, one!
Watch out!
You almost died.
Nobody fall
over the edge.
I only have two rules.
Don't get hurt.
And don't die.
Holy moly!
My wife would kill me.
- Is that...
- yeah, dude!
The fact that every pan had
a little bit of gold in it
was a really good sign.
- There you go, Scott.
- Whoo!
That's nice.
Bring as much as you can,
'cause we're gonna need
at least two jugs.
If you flip it over, it'll
carry real easy, I think.
Nine miles
up the Tsirku River,
deep in the
Alaskan wilderness,
mine boss Dustin Hurt is
a month into the mining season
on his new Nugget Creek claim.
It's just costing
a lot of money,
'cause we're way out here.
So we need to get in the water
and we need to find some gold.
That has to happen.
We're gonna go up there.
I need to make a
parking spot for the dredge.
That's my goal today.
I need us in the water,
or this is costing too much.
And we need to start getting
gold in the pocket.
That's all there is to it.
It has to pay for itself.
Last week,
with a little help from
mining legend, Fred Hurt,
Dustin finally punched
through the ice barrier,
blocking the path to
his Golden Gates dive site.
Hey! Holy crap.
You've got some gold, man!
Now, with his new
dive site free of ice,
Dustin is about to
double down.
Go look for your new site.
I would suggest
bringing a rope.
Wear some harnesses.
Not that you don't know
what you're doing,
but slips happen.
We all slip.
- All right, everybody know
what to do? All right.
- Yup.
- It's time to hit it.
- Let's get to it.
500 feet up-creek is the start
of Dustin's claims.
And it's here that Fred
found their first gold,
dubbing the area
"the Golden Gates."
I'm excited
about this area.
Look at those boulders.
There's gonna be a line
of gold right through here
because this has not
been touched. Any of this.
The virgin ground
looks promising.
But it will take a diver
in the water
to see how much gold
lies beneath.
You wanna put the dredge
right here?
We haven't decided yet.
Now, this seems like
a lot of extra work,
but I wanted
to make a dam.
All the way across and
make that water level match.
It'll slow that water down
where we're at.
With that boulder
out of the way,
it'll give me a parking spot
so I can put
the damn dredge in,
back in a boat
about three or four feet
behind this big rock.
That big rock gone,
that would be my
perfect world right there.
That would be an
awesome world right there.
To get the dredge
in the water,
Dustin must first move
monster boulders downstream
to create a dam.
This will raise
the water level and
slow the raging current,
creating a perfect spot
to float the dredge
and dive for what Dustin
believes is an
untouched deposit of gold.
All right, guys.
Let's pop some rocks.
Let's get this dam up.
I need this dredge
in the water.
We got to get to diggin'.
Let's get a diver
in the water, man.
Let's go.
So this gives you
an idea of what we're
dealing with with the water.
This creek drops, I think,
900 feet per mile.
So it's gonna be fast water.
No kidding.
Kayla, there's a really
hard hike going
all the way up-creek.
You guys got your work
cut out for you.
I've only seen ice and snow
as far as I've been up, so.
We need to get
an aerial view
so we can find somewhere
that's more exposed,
less snow.
What I was
thinking for you
was to continue right here.
That's what we
were looking at.
That's a marathon
right there.
That's not a sprint.
Let's go!
On the hunt
for a dive site,
Kayla and Justin are forced
to blaze their own trail
up the sheer cliffs
and into
the untamed wilderness.
Wait up for me, speedy.
- Hurry up.
- I'm hurrying.
- Don't die.
- I won't.
I can put a little
extra weight in mine
if needed.
The weight I need
to lose, you can't take.
Nope.
I got some bear doo-doo.
Yeah. I don't have
a gun either.
If we get up
to a ledge that opens up
to where we can walk along it,
we might be able to walk
upstream to get a better view.
So hopefully
not too far.
Hopefully.
Nine miles north,
79-year-old mining legend,
Fred Hurt,
returns to Porcupine Creek,
the same creek where
he and Dusting first
started their adventure.
19 years of memories.
Good old Porcupine Creek mine.
Over a decade ago...
We know there's gold
sitting under our feet.
...Fred gambled on the legend
of the glory hole
and chased an ancient
waterfall over 100 feet deep.
The material is
just too hard.
This thing doesn't have
enough power to continue.
They never reached
the bedrock bottom...
Declaring it right now abandoned.
...but still got to
their biggest payday.
We took about
three quarters of
a million dollars' worth
of gold out of this hole.
Did I have fun doin' it?
Hell yes, I did.
Now he's heading
a mile up Porcupine Creek
to take over the
dredging operation at
Mark Siethen's claim.
There does seem
to be a considerable
amount of problems.
I probably have a little more
irritating way of dealing
with it than Dustin.
As I'm getting a little older,
I'm trying to be
a little more tactful.
Just a little.
- How's it going, Fred?
- Hey hey!
Hey, Fred.
How ya doing, man?
Good to see you, buddy.
Welcome back out
to Porcupine.
- Hot damn!
- How ya been doin'?
They just sucking down diesel.
Oh, yeah.
On this spot
a century ago,
the early minors built
a huge wooden flume
to divert Porcupine Creek
and mine the riverbed for
millions of dollars of gold.
Mark believes the remains
of the pilings
that supported the flume
prove that the ground
by the side of the creek
was never mined,
leaving behind a
treasure trove of gold.
But, boy, y'all do
have a nasty mess here.
Well, we got a cesspool.
Oh, Lord!
It's so murky that
we can't see anything,
so we can't really make
good progress.
We end up spending more time
taking our plug-ups out.
The way they have it
set up now
is just an
impossible situation.
They're dumping dirty water
into the water
they're diving in.
Duh.
It'll settle down
if we let it alone
for a couple of days.
It'll settle down and
we'll have some clarity.
But as soon as we
fire the dredge up,
poof, it's all
back to this again.
I would put two of 'em.
Make two ponds out of one.
- Two ponds?
- I would.
I'd rather spend
the half a day,
divide the pond in two parts
so we can see
what we're doin'.
We're gonna split this
and make
two ponds out of this.
And then we're gonna go ahead
and put the dredge
in the secondary pond.
That will clarify the water
and it should be okay.
Fred's plan,
build a berm to
divide the pond in two,
placing the dredge
between the two ponds
so all the dirty water
from the sluice goes
straight into the lower pond,
keeping the dive pond clear
for the crew
to dredge for gold.
Paul and Scott indicated
it was just gonna take 'em
a half a day
to build that peninsula
all the way across that pond.
Ain't gonna happen.
It'll be a day,
day and a half,
maybe two days, especially
the way they're doin' it.
Hey! Put your dirt
on top of dirt.
Like right here...
- Okay.
- ...and then just ease it,
then dump it.
Don't ever dump dirt
in the water.
Copy that.
Water is like kryptonite
if you drop dirt through it.
Just dispenses it.
You lose 80% of
the buoyancy of your dirt.
I could get on that thing,
and get that thing out there
15 feet in about an hour.
It's hell to know stuff
and not be able
to pass it on to people.
What the hell y'all got
goin' here?
You want me to get that thing
started for you
so you can get
your ass moving?
If you wanna show me
like exactly
what you're talking about.
-'Cause I think I got an idea
but if I can--
- I'll go out there 20 minutes.
- Cool. Go for it, man.
- All right.
I kinda bowed to
the experience that Fred has.
He's got a ton of time
on excavators.
With nearly
a quarter of a century
in the construction business,
there is nothing Fred doesn't
know about moving dirt.
Come on, let's go.
Now in the hotseat,
the berm build shifts
into overdrive.
You gotta teach
these young bucks everything.
Up ahead...
Ready for some noise?
Nobody fall over the edge.
Man, holy moly.
This is what white water's
all about, folks.
Man, if that'd go on top
of those, that'd be good.
This is gonna go down there.
We're gonna use it
for a dam.
Come on, you [bleep]!
Oh, yeah. Yeah, it's
a busy, busy day, amigo.
Busy, busy day.
At the Golden Gates,
Dustin's crew battle
some of the most
challenging conditions
they've ever faced.
That's it!
The goal, to have
their dredge in the water
by week's end.
But first, they must build it
a safe harbor.
We are way
behind schedule.
Ideally we would've been
in the water already,
had a couple of ounces
to show for it
and it's just
taking us forever.
Three, two, one!
You hear that?
They just popped a rock.
High on
the ridgeline overhead,
Kayla and Justin bushwack
deep into bear country
in a desperate search for
a second dive site.
We've got enough
elevation gain right here.
If we start kind of
traversing across,
maybe to find an edge
instead of keep going up,
we might be able
to get a good view.
We really need to
find somewhere
where the snow has melted.
I'm just trying to get
a little foot-grab.
That way, we at least
have good traction.
And avoid sliding
down to who knows
what would stop us.
I don't like how it looks
down there.
We've made it higher
up the mountain.
Try to get a view, vantage,
So we can determine where we
might have a good spot
to start mining,
and we're still bushwhacking.
After a grueling
4-hour climb,
they have yet to find
what they're looking for.
It's definitely
not easy.
I thought I'd do a little
better, personally, at this
than I have been,
but it's, uh...
it's exhausting.
For new recruit,
Justin Peterson,
the harsh trail is
a long way from his old job.
From being a regular worker
at a weld shop to...
- trekking in the--
- Mountain goat.
To a mountain goat
and following Kayla,
this is something else.
- What have you gotten
yourself into?
- I know!
It just keeps getting
thicker and thicker as we go.
Let's go up
and through all this [bleep].
Like, I think there's
a cliff edge right over here,
but it's so overgrown,
I don't know if we're even
gonna be able to see
from this side.
With all this plant debris
and duff, it's real slick.
There's really
no good footing right here.
I wouldn't recommend
following me right here.
I'm gonna climb up here
for just a second
to see if maybe there's
an opening where
we can see something.
There's no point in both
of us climbing up here
right now
if it doesn't open up.
- So I'll be back in a minute.
- All right.
Careful.
It's so [bleep] overgrown,
it's just so hard to tell
where to go.
I can't tell
where the ledge is.
Can you see anything yet?
Heck yeah.
I see two good sections
without snow.
- That is excellent.
- Yeah, that water's open.
Running east to west,
this stretch of creek is
exposed to
twice as much sunlight.
This open water could be
their only chance
to mine the creek this season.
It looks like
there's a good-sized
stretch of creek here
that's way more exposed
so it has no snow.
Just knowing that it's not
covered in snow
all the way up
is a huge accomplishment.
If we cannot have to spend
that extra time
messing with the snow as much,
that would save us
a lot of work.
It's been quite
the day of a hike but
it was totally worth it.
If we can bypass
that patch of snow above
the other crew's site,
we could start sampling
and then find a spot
to put our dredge.
I say we go back down
and then start figuring out
where we're gonna
cut a trail.
Come on, let's go!
On the other side
of the mountain
at Porcupine Creek,
in need of an injection
of cash,
Dustin has turned to
his father, Fred, for help.
Pretty soon I'm gonna have
my bucket into the wall,
aren't I?
Just shove your bucket down.
Don't dump. Don't dump.
Hey!
Don't dump.
Just put it level
and push right on out there.
There you go.
I know you know
how to build a road.
Pretty soon,
they'll have it cut off.
They'll be doing
all their activity out
into this pond here.
This other pond over here
will be their discharge pond.
We'll see how quick
he can get this peninsula
finished here.
Flatten your bucket out
a little bit there.
All right, back drag.
Right there.
Whoo!
Look at that, huh?
- Oh, yeah.
- Almost like we know
what we're doing.
[bleep] yeah.
- What a day.
- Whoo. That's what I mean.
What a day.
After nine, ten hours,
you start feeling a little bit
on the rough side.
- I think
we're in great shape.
- Yeah.
- Good job, guys.
- I'm excited about tomorrow.
Me too.
There's a pretty good chance
that Scott and Paul,
they're gonna be
dredging up gold tomorrow.
We may need to go over there
and fish for that other drill.
After finding
the only section of
open water up-creek,
Kayla and Justin's job
has just begun.
Today's main goal
is to get
a trail started to our site.
I have an idea of the area
that we're gonna go scout out.
Either way, we need to get
a trail established
to get around that cliff wall
that is blocking us right now.
Dustin has
just the trail-busting tool
for the mammoth task.
We got ourself
a really awesome jackhammer.
We got the biggest widest
paddles I could get on it.
I've used jackhammers
plenty of times before
at different construction jobs
I've had in the past.
But I've never quite
used 'em on a...
bedrock wall over a creek,
trying to make a trail. So...
this'll be something
really new for me.
And we're off.
All right.
Get ready to jack!
Definitely a top-heavy load.
It's not gonna
be easy, but...
hopefully it kind of
flattens out a little bit
once we get farther up.
It's just really hard to tell
past that corner.
If we can at least
just get to that point,
and then figure out
where to go from there,
that would be great.
So, let's get at it.
All right.
Ready for some noise?
This rock's a little more
solid under the top stuff.
- Oh, really?
- Yeah.
I'll try and get to
this edge a little more.
I was hoping
I'd pop the whole line
and fracture it down, but.
As Justin cuts
a path with a jackhammer
that delivers nearly
900 impacts per minute,
Kayla must find rocks strong
enough to risk her life on.
The rock that we're
dealing with here is shale
and shale's really crumbly.
So it's hard to set anchors in
because they don't
secure very well.
The rock shatters.
There's a lot of cracks in it.
And there can be cracks behind
that you don't even see.
Sometimes when you're
hammering the anchor in,
the rock just shatters.
So it's kind of [bleep] rock
to be putting anchors in.
Cutting a path on
this kind of grade and stuff,
it's a new experience.
It's a bit crazy.
But...
if you can do what others
didn't do, you're gonna get
the gold.
That's... it takes...
It takes crazy
to find the gold.
700 feet down-creek, to get
his dredge in the water,
Dustin hauls in some
heavy equipment.
So we're gonna go,
uh, set up some winches.
Wes is gonna be on winches.
We're gonna be in charge
of carrying them up there
and bringing all this stuff
up for 'em,
'cause this is some
heavy junk.
It's not gonna be fun.
If you don't mention how heavy
it is, then I can't feel it.
So don't remind me, man,
about how heavy it is.
This is heavy.
These are real heavy.
To complete the dam,
they need
the 132-pound winches
to drag the creeks boulders
into place.
Nobody fall
over the edge.
Whoa!
Need a break.
I've been trying
to set up camp.
I have not been lifting
winches up mountains.
But if we don't
get any gold,
we won't make the end
of damn season.
We're doing this.
Yeah!
Holy crap!
Whoo-hoo!
Ha, pressure marks.
Look at that.
So right now
we're trying to set up our
re-direct on the other side.
To create a dam,
Wes's plan is to install
a pair of winches
on the near side
of the creek
and a re-direct
on the far bank
which will allow them
to maneuver
the lift pulley
up and down the creek.
Looking good.
We're gonna use
this pulley
to re-direct this line
to grab any rock
anywhere up this creek.
Anywhere, anywhere.
But before they
can start dragging rocks
Carlos has the dangerous task
of crossing the raging river.
I don't know
how to get a re-direct
on that side
without getting hurt,
washed away or killed.
That's the fastest part
of this creek right now
and that's going millions
and millions of gallons
in freakin' seconds.
And it's freakin' deep.
This water's next
level fast, dude.
Yeah, no, I agree.
It's, uh, that's rough.
Rough [bleep].
If I can get out
to this main rock right here.
Set up a temporary
anchor point.
Yeah, dude,
it sounds like a great plan.
Argh!
Holy moly!
I'm doing this again,
man, holy moly.
Argh!
I've got it.
Made it.
Good, good.
Perfect.
My wife would kill me.
Argh.
Oh, my, argh.
Kids, stay in school
otherwise you'll be
doing this.
Woo-hoo!
Hoo.
This is crazy. Wow.
This is what white water's
all about, folks.
Everything's so cold.
All the sake of gold.
First safety line secured,
Carlos can now brave
the white water
further down the creek
to bring the new winch
system online.
How the hell
am I gonna get out of here?
He's going swimming,
it's not even break time.
I need that back.
Yeah, there you go.
Carlos is working right now
to put us a re-direct
on the other side.
It'll just give us the ability
to, uh, direct our rocks
and put 'em where we want.
Looking good.
Let's do it.
You gonna be dumb
you gotta be tough.
Good job, man.
- Coming up.
- Ah, you're not
getting over there.
Little, hey, one at a time.
How you do what you do,
man, I don't know.
No problem, man,
we're good, we're good.
Woo-hoo! Yeah.
Rock water, man.
Dude, I am such
a badass, bro, [bleep].
Couldn't get
that to stick.
Finally, with
the heavy use winches installed,
the miners can get to work.
Yeah!
Oh, yeah, now
we're moving.
We're so close
to getting the dredge in.
I think this is gonna
work to our advantage,
that's what I got
going right now.
Up ahead...
Fire it up.
This water is nasty
and we can't see.
Last thing I wanna
do is bust through the ice.
Three, two, one!
- Whoa.
- You almost died.
At Porcupine Creek...
Time to get dressed.
Let's see what
that water looks like.
...it's time to put
Fred's master plan
to increase visibility
to the test.
Ideally they would let this
front pond settle
just a little bit more
but they need to get
in there and find out...
Get some gold.
Fire it up.
Come on, baby.
Dustin is banking
on the Pilings Pond
delivering some
fast gold
to fund his Nugget Creek operation.
The possibility that
there's just a pocket
of gold down there
that's untouched, I mean...
I won't let that haunt me,
I gotta find out.
All right, there we go.
- You copy?
- Got you.
Yeah, loud and clear.
Loud and clear.
Good luck down there, Scott.
Good luck.
So far, the crew
is yet to dredge
a single ounce of gold
from the pond.
How's all your systems
working down there, Scott?
All pretty
good so far.
Water's good, air's good.
Good water, good air?
Good water,
good air.
How's the visibility
down there?
I got about
two inches.
Well it's better than,
uh, last time
when you said you couldn't
even see your fingers
in front of your mask.
So, uh, hell, you got
visibility now.
We'll call it, you got
visibility down there now.
I'm zero to something.
Just remember the old, uh,
woman and making love
to her at night.
You're just kind
of feeling your way around.
I'm bring something up
to get it out of the way.
He pulled a piece
of board out
that's got a big, old metal
spike sticking out of it.
Just sounds like...
Wow.
Running in to that.
Damn.
That's a homemade nail.
It can be deadly.
Material is changing,
not, uh, the sludgy stuff.
Yep.
It feels a lot
more like that glacial fill.
Huh, I'd be rising
those off the bedrock, man.
Scott is down there
trying to, uh, find
the very bottom
of, uh, where that
bedrock kind of flattens
out down there.
That's where the, uh,
gold always is in, uh, Porcupine.
This material
feels great.
Hey, that's a good sign.
That is a good sign.
I got a 12-foot
area cleared.
Uh-oh, we got a little
problem here.
The landlocked
dive site presents
a new problem.
Uh, we got dirty water
but it's circulating
back up here.
It's three inches higher
in the back
that it is at the front.
In 15 minutes, that'll all be
right over the top of Scott.
We gotta drain that water
out of there, I can guarantee.
All right, Scott?
You're in some
good hands with Paul.
Fred's gonna go
grab the excavator.
Dig us a trench see if we
can get this water
to flow up and hopefully that
changes our flow.
This water's nasty
and you can't see.
If Fred's new plan
to clear the backed up
tailings doesn't work,
the crew can forget
any chance
of their much needed
pay day.
Uh, about one more
dig and we ready to, uh...
...dump some water.
There she goes!
He's flying out of here now.
That should clear that pond
up in the front.
Good job, man.
All right, that's just
about done it.
We got enough of a, we got
a good flow coming out
of the dirty water pond
into the, uh, creek.
Now, visibility
is a lot better than
what it has been,
so, I'll take it.
Looks really good.
Hey, Scott, I think
you set the record
here for, uh,
the longest session
without no plug ups.
On the other
side of the mountain
Kayla and Justin are
six hours into their mission
to reach their potential
new dive site.
But they still have another
300-feet to go.
Hand cutting a trail,
it's definitely challenging.
It seems like it goes
so slow,
there's so much
that needs to be done.
It makes it feel like
you're not really getting
any progress done
and it's just an endless
chore, but...
...slowly but surely
we'll get it done.
Hey.
What's going on?
How do you like
our highway?
I could drive my
four wheeler up here.
All right, wait, wait, wait.
This is way too much work
for you to do this.
I need to know
if there's gold up there.
So what I would do,
I would go and put, like...
They call it a P-line.
And it's just basically,
an exploration trail.
And then you find out
if it's possible,
it's worth putting
in that effort.
Makes sense if you just go
across the wall
trying to get it,
you hit a dead end,
you've wasted all that time
when you could've discovered
it with a little bit less
and figured another route.
You cut only enough.
Just enough to where
it's not a lot of effort
and you're moving fast.
I'm gonna check
this rock right here
figure out where to put
my first anchor bolt.
It's all crumbly.
Let's see.
That's not the greatest.
Using Justin's
P-line strategy,
Kayla makes rapid progress
across the cliff.
Can you see anything yet?
Once we get around
this crest,
there's land right here.
Problem is, I just don't see
any good rock
for an anchor bolt.
Unless I do it, like,
right here.
But this isn't that
great a rock either.
One failed bolt
and it's a 20-foot drop
to the creek below.
Last thing
I wanna do
is bust through the ice.
I don't like it but
I'm gonna go for it.
In Alaska,
you always have to keep
your head on a swivel.
There it goes!
Because you never
know what may fall
out of the sky.
Woo-hoo! All right.
Literally, literally
dropped us a package.
Literally one of the hoses
that we need for the dredge.
This looks...
...perfect.
On Nugget Creek,
Kayla and Justin
are within inches
of what could be their
dive site for the season.
So the good news is, once
we get around this crest
there's land right here.
Oh, my goodness,
I can hear the water
around the corner.
- Right there.
All cleared.
What I did was put my butt
against the snow
and, like, shimmy
my feet across.
All right.
- We got a lot of land
to work with over here.
- Definitely.
You see what I see?
Look at those
banks over there.
That's quite the sweep.
I like this spot.
What do you think?
You like it?
Yeah.
You can tell, like,
the way the bedrock
comes out right there
that it pushed everything.
- So this was where
everything was pushed to.
- Yeah.
- Same with that...
- Same with that.
- ...on that side.
-'Cause it hits rim,
comes this way.
Smashes over there.
- This way.
- Here and backs up.
You can tell
material's built up here.
Free of ice and snow,
this section of creek
is Kayla's only hope
for a successful season.
Now it's time to do
some sampling.
It's a lot more exciting
because now we know
we have potential
to find some gold.
So obviously when
we're panning
we're looking for gold,
if it's obvious,
but we're looking
for the black sands,
pyrites, other heavy minerals
that would give us an idea
of the gold being here.
Gold tends to be the deepest
one of them all.
I got gold already.
Bingo.
Usually
with water this fast
most of it settles all the way
down to the bottom.
So that fact that every pan
at least had a little bit
was a really good sign.
So the next step
is to get Paul and Scott
back with us
and start dredging.
I need a parking spot
right here for this dredge.
These rocks are in my way
and I need those rocks
right there.
Down creek
at the golden gates...
Bottle up.
...in a desperate
attempt to get his dredge
in the water...
Hell yeah! Nice job.
...Dustin pushes
his winch system
to the brink.
We need to get
rid of that big rock too
right there.
That's the asteroid rock
and we're gonna send
it back to outer space.
To make this dam, it's ideal
to use big rocks like this
but, God,
if we can't move 'em,
we have to make smaller
rocks, more manageable.
We're ready for power heads.
The huge
asteroid rock is too large
for the winches.
so they'll need
to blow it to pieces.
Come on out of there.
Hey, and...
Argh!
Come on, [bleep].
There's our nemesis right now.
Need it out of the way.
Three, two, one.
That didn't
do anything, dude.
Try that again.
Has to move because
it's in my damn way.
Ready!
But blast
after blast
the asteroid rock
refuses to budge.
Get rid of this damn
thing, it's ruining
my life right now.
In my opinion this should've
been done
so I'm flipping out
a little bit.
I need my
dredge in the water
and I'm losing my [bleep].
It's freaking me the [bleep].
Like, nobody understands
how [bleep] important
this really is right now.
But we all have to apply
for a new [bleep] job
because we didn't get
this [bleep] done.
What's our main objective
today, brothers?
Parking spot for the boat.
Is that right?
Can you help me
do that today, man?
Yeah, yep, yeah.
I'd really appreciate it.
Really appreciate it.
Put another head in there.
Oh, you wanna put
another one in there?
Yeah, put, like,
as many boosters
that'll fit in there.
Yeah, one more, yeah.
Let's drill some more holes,
pop some more.
Just snap that
into a million pieces.
Argh.
Ready!
Three, two, one.
No.
Nothing.
What the
just happened?
That's our first misfire.
Did they get unplugged
somehow?
They probably unplugged
'cause of the current.
Unplugged.
I know y'all are working hard
and everybody's working hard
I just, I don't think
everybody understands
how important it really is.
Fire in the hole!
Three, two, one.
Whoa!
Almost died.
Oh, [bleep], you all right?
Whoa, dude.
- Holy [bleep].
- Freakin'...
- You almost died
just now.
- Holy [bleep].
You almost died.
- You all right?
- Lucky [bleep] man.
That's some
that come flying, that was...
That piece is [bleep].
Three, two, one.
Whoa, whoa.
That was freakin'...
You almost died
just now.
Did it get ya?
Holy [bleep].
This is 60-feet away
and it hit right here,
Carlos was laying
right there.
Holy [bleep].
Fly rock is absolutely
the deadliest thing
that there is.
I thought Carlos
was a goner, dude.
I was standing next to him
and it him and he went
like this.
I... Oh, my God.
It just happened so fast.
It, like, hit the bank
but it hit his shoulder
at the same time.
And that rock weighs
probably, 20, 25 pounds.
It blew the hell
out of that rock though.
Are you hurt?
No, just tell me
I'm not dead, dude.
He was bleeding
for a little bit.
Well, I only got two rules,
what are they?
Don't die.
- Don't get hurt.
- Don't die.
No one tells my wife.
Oh, my God, do not
put this on TV.
She'll kill ya.
Yeah, we figured
it was a good time
to call it for the day.
Yeah, dude, we're done.
It was almost catastrophic.
We're superstitious when
it comes to big problems.
Holy moly.
When things
start to go wrong
we bail, that's it.
I'm getting
desperate right now.
It's going on too long,
I'm running out
of damn money.
No dam,
no dredge,
and one of his crew
almost critically injured.
Dustin's week
is left in ruins.
I've got too much
tied up into this
and I thought we'd be
in the damn water by now,
I was naive and dumb
and now I'm desperate.
At Porcupine,
Scott Allen is the only
member of Dustin's crew
that's actually dredging
for gold.
All the pressure is on him
to deliver a big pay day.
Done.
I think we found
a good spot here, buddy.
Perfect.
Give me a tug on
my umbilical so I can
orientate myself.
All right, I'm pulling up
on your hose.
That's not a bad dive, Scott,
you've been in for like,
five hours now, so.
He's following
the hose there.
After a five hour dive
it's time to see
if all their hard work
has paid off.
Did you started
cleaning bedrock?
I was on bedrock
for a good long while
so, I'm really excited
to see what's in this.
One way to find out.
Let's check it.
Shut it down, let's go
check it out.
All right, come on, baby.
Is that?
yeah, dude.
There's three pieces
right there.
That's nice.
That's, whoa, look.
There you go, Scott.
Wow.
Wow, that's some
weight, man.
Seven
jewelry grade nuggets,
worth a lot more
than fine gold.
It's been a long
dry spell but...
- Somebody had to break it.
- You found the right spot.
It's good to start
finally seeing some gold.
I mean, this is the first
good gold of the season.
This pond almost
had us defeated.
It actually almost did.
Oh, yeah. Look at that.
I made
a few suggestions
on how to clarify
that water a little bit.
Well finally today
we got in there
we actually found
a little bit of gold.
It's a little bit hard
to leave right now.
Just found some gold.
But it's up to them
to continue this
and it's time for me
to exit stage left.
On the next
Gold Rush: White Water.
The dredge
made it to Nugget Creek.
All right, you guys,
we're gonna do some
heavy off-roading.
Oh, [bleep],
it's working, man.
Keep on going, pull, pull.
Even with their head start,
my crew still got a dredge
in the water first.
That's an awesome sight,
seeing the dredge go in.
We are in the water,
we are mining now.
My
chest hurts.
Freaking me out.
So I'm either having
an anxiety attack
or a [bleep] heart attack.
He's gotta be all right
'cause we gotta get gold
out of Nugget Creek.
Kayla's a beast,
I just try to keep up.
You ready
to find some gold?
Today's gonna be the change.
The change we needed.